caret_3_preprocessing
3 Pre-Processing
pre-processing.html
 3.2 Zero- and Near Zero-Variance Predictors In some situations, the data generating mechanism can create predictors that only have a single unique value (i.e. a “zero-variance predictor”). For many models (excluding tree-based models), this may cause the model to crash or the fit to be unstable. Similarly, predictors might have only a handful of unique values that occur with very low frequencies. For example, in the drug resistance data, the nR11 descriptor (number of 11-membered rings) data have a few unique numeric values that are highly unbalanced: The concern here that these predictors may become zero-variance predictors when the data are split into cross-validation/bootstrap sub-samples or that a few samples may have an undue influence on the model. These “near-zero-variance” predictors may need to be identified and eliminated prior to modeling. To identify these types of predictors, the following two metrics can be calculated: the frequency of the most prevalent value over the second most frequent value (called the “frequency ratio’’), which would be near one for well-behaved predictors and very large for highly-unbalanced data and the “percent of unique values’’ is the number of unique values divided by the total number of samples (times 100) that approaches zero as the granularity of the data increases If the frequency ratio is greater than a pre-specified threshold and the unique value percentage is less than a threshold, we might consider a predictor to be near zero-variance. We would not want to falsely identify data that have low granularity but are evenly distributed, such as data from a discrete uniform distribution. Using both criteria should not falsely detect such predictors. Looking at the MDRR data, the nearZeroVar function can be used to identify near zero-variance variables (the saveMetrics argument can be used to show the details and usually defaults to FALSE ): By default, nearZeroVar will return the positions of the variables that are flagged to be problematic. 