caret_21_feature_selection_using_genetic_algorithms
21 Feature Selection using Genetic Algorithms
feature-selection-using-genetic-algorithms.html
 21.2 Internal and External Performance Estimates The genetic algorithm code in caret conducts the search of the feature space repeatedly within resampling iterations. First, the training data are split be whatever resampling method was specified in the control function. For example, if 10-fold cross-validation is selected, the entire genetic algorithm is conducted 10 separate times. For the first fold, nine tenths of the data are used in the search while the remaining tenth is used to estimate the external performance since these data points were not used in the search. During the genetic algorithm, a measure of fitness is needed to guide the search. This is the internal measure of performance. During the search, the data that are available are the instances selected by the top-level resampling (e.g. the nine tenths mentioned above). A common approach is to conduct another resampling procedure. Another option is to use a holdout set of samples to determine the internal estimate of performance (see the holdout argument of the control function). While this is faster, it is more likely to cause overfitting of the features and should only be used when a large amount of training data are available. Yet another idea is to use a penalized metric (such as the AIC statistic) but this may not exist for some metrics (e.g. the area under the ROC curve). The internal estimates of performance will eventually overfit the subsets to the data. However, since the external estimate is not used by the search, it is able to make better assessments of overfitting. After resampling, this function determines the optimal number of generations for the GA. Finally, the entire data set is used in the last execution of the genetic algorithm search and the final model is built on the predictor subset that is associated with the optimal number of generations determined by resampling (although the update function can be used to manually set the number of generations). 