caret_20_recursive_feature_elimination
20 Recursive Feature Elimination
recursive-feature-elimination.html
 20.1 Backwards Selection First, the algorithm fits the model to all predictors. Each predictor is ranked using it’s importance to the model. Let S be a sequence of ordered numbers which are candidate values for the number of predictors to retain ( S 1 > S 2 , …). At each iteration of feature selection, the S i top ranked predictors are retained, the model is refit and performance is assessed. The value of S i with the best performance is determined and the top S i predictors are used to fit the final model. Algorithm 1 has a more complete definition. The algorithm has an optional step (line 1.9) where the predictor rankings are recomputed on the model on the reduced feature set. Svetnik et al (2004) showed that, for random forest models, there was a decrease in performance when the rankings were re-computed at every step. However, in other cases when the initial rankings are not good (e.g. linear models with highly collinear predictors), re-calculation can slightly improve performance. One potential issue over-fitting to the predictor set such that the wrapper procedure could focus on nuances of the training data that are not found in future samples (i.e. over-fitting to predictors and samples). For example, suppose a very large number of uninformative predictors were collected and one such predictor randomly correlated with the outcome. The RFE algorithm would give a good rank to this variable and the prediction error (on the same data set) would be lowered. It would take a different test/validation to find out that this predictor was uninformative. The was referred to as “selection bias” by Ambroise and McLachlan (2002) . In the current RFE algorithm, the training data is being used for at least three purposes: predictor selection, model fitting and performance evaluation. Unless the number of samples is large, especially in relation to the number of variables, one static training set may not be able to fulfill these needs. 