sklearn_2_2_manifold_learning
2.2. Manifold learning
modules/manifold.html
 2.2.8. Multi-dimensional Scaling (MDS)  Multidimensional scaling ( MDS ) seeks a low-dimensional representation of the data in which the distances respect well the distances in the original high-dimensional space. In general, MDS is a technique used for analyzing similarity or dissimilarity data. It attempts to model similarity or dissimilarity data as distances in a geometric spaces. The data can be ratings of similarity between objects, interaction frequencies of molecules, or trade indices between countries. There exists two types of MDS algorithm: metric and non metric. In the scikit-learn, the class MDS implements both. In Metric MDS, the input similarity matrix arises from a metric (and thus respects the triangular inequality), the distances between output two points are then set to be as close as possible to the similarity or dissimilarity data. In the non-metric version, the algorithms will try to preserve the order of the distances, and hence seek for a monotonic relationship between the distances in the embedded space and the similarities/dissimilarities. Let be the similarity matrix, and the coordinates of the input points. Disparities are transformation of the similarities chosen in some optimal ways. The objective, called the stress, is then defined by 2.2.8.1. Metric MDS  The simplest metric MDS model, called absolute MDS , disparities are defined by . With absolute MDS, the value should then correspond exactly to the distance between point and in the embedding point. Most commonly, disparities are set to . 2.2.8.2. Nonmetric MDS  Non metric MDS focuses on the ordination of the data. If , then the embedding should enforce . A simple algorithm to enforce that is to use a monotonic regression of on , yielding disparities in the same order as . A trivial solution to this problem is to set all the points on the origin. In order to avoid that, the disparities are normalized. References: “Modern Multidimensional Scaling - Theory and Applications” Borg, I.; Groenen P. Springer Series in Statistics (1997) “Nonmetric multidimensional scaling: a numerical method” Kruskal, J. Psychometrika, 29 (1964) “Multidimensional scaling by optimizing goodness of fit to a nonmetric hypothesis” Kruskal, J. Psychometrika, 29, (1964) 