sklearn_2_6_covariance_estimation
2.6. Covariance estimation
modules/covariance.html
 2.6.4. Robust Covariance Estimation  Real data sets are often subject to measurement or recording errors. Regular but uncommon observations may also appear for a variety of reasons. Observations which are very uncommon are called outliers. The empirical covariance estimator and the shrunk covariance estimators presented above are very sensitive to the presence of outliers in the data. Therefore, one should use robust covariance estimators to estimate the covariance of its real data sets. Alternatively, robust covariance estimators can be used to perform outlier detection and discard/downweight some observations according to further processing of the data. The package implements a robust estimator of covariance, the Minimum Covariance Determinant 3 . 2.6.4.1. Minimum Covariance Determinant  The Minimum Covariance Determinant estimator is a robust estimator of a data set’s covariance introduced by P.J. Rousseeuw in 3 . The idea is to find a given proportion (h) of “good” observations which are not outliers and compute their empirical covariance matrix. This empirical covariance matrix is then rescaled to compensate the performed selection of observations (“consistency step”). Having computed the Minimum Covariance Determinant estimator, one can give weights to observations according to their Mahalanobis distance, leading to a reweighted estimate of the covariance matrix of the data set (“reweighting step”). Rousseeuw and Van Driessen 4 developed the FastMCD algorithm in order to compute the Minimum Covariance Determinant. This algorithm is used in scikit-learn when fitting an MCD object to data. The FastMCD algorithm also computes a robust estimate of the data set location at the same time. Raw estimates can be accessed as and attributes of a MinCovDet robust covariance estimator object. References: 3 ( 1 , 2 ) P. J. Rousseeuw. Least median of squares regression. J. Am Stat Ass, 79:871, 1984. 4 A Fast Algorithm for the Minimum Covariance Determinant Estimator, 1999, American Statistical Association and the American Society for Quality, TECHNOMETRICS. Examples: See Robust vs Empirical covariance estimate for an example on how to fit a MinCovDet object to data and see how the estimate remains accurate despite the presence of outliers. See Robust covariance estimation and Mahalanobis distances relevance to visualize the difference between EmpiricalCovariance and MinCovDet covariance estimators in terms of Mahalanobis distance (so we get a better estimate of the precision matrix too). Influence of outliers on location and covariance estimates Separating inliers from outliers using a Mahalanobis distance 