sklearn_1_7_gaussian_processes
1.7. Gaussian Processes
modules/gaussian_process.html
 1.7.2. GPR examples  1.7.2.1. GPR with noise-level estimation  This example illustrates that GPR with a sum-kernel including a WhiteKernel can estimate the noise level of data. An illustration of the log-marginal-likelihood (LML) landscape shows that there exist two local maxima of LML. The first corresponds to a model with a high noise level and a large length scale, which explains all variations in the data by noise. The second one has a smaller noise level and shorter length scale, which explains most of the variation by the noise-free functional relationship. The second model has a higher likelihood; however, depending on the initial value for the hyperparameters, the gradient-based optimization might also converge to the high-noise solution. It is thus important to repeat the optimization several times for different initializations. 1.7.2.2. Comparison of GPR and Kernel Ridge Regression  Both kernel ridge regression (KRR) and GPR learn a target function by employing internally the “kernel trick”. KRR learns a linear function in the space induced by the respective kernel which corresponds to a non-linear function in the original space. The linear function in the kernel space is chosen based on the mean-squared error loss with ridge regularization. GPR uses the kernel to define the covariance of a prior distribution over the target functions and uses the observed training data to define a likelihood function. Based on Bayes theorem, a (Gaussian) posterior distribution over target functions is defined, whose mean is used for prediction. A major difference is that GPR can choose the kernel’s hyperparameters based on gradient-ascent on the marginal likelihood function while KRR needs to perform a grid search on a cross-validated loss function (mean-squared error loss). A further difference is that GPR learns a generative, probabilistic model of the target function and can thus provide meaningful confidence intervals and posterior samples along with the predictions while KRR only provides predictions. The following figure illustrates both methods on an artificial dataset, which consists of a sinusoidal target function and strong noise. The figure compares the learned model of KRR and GPR based on a ExpSineSquared kernel, which is suited for learning periodic functions. The kernel’s hyperparameters control the smoothness (length_scale) and periodicity of the kernel (periodicity). Moreover, the noise level of the data is learned explicitly by GPR by an additional WhiteKernel component in the kernel and by the regularization parameter alpha of KRR. The figure shows that both methods learn reasonable models of the target function. GPR correctly identifies the periodicity of the function to be roughly (6.28), while KRR chooses the doubled periodicity . Besides that, GPR provides reasonable confidence bounds on the prediction which are not available for KRR. A major difference between the two methods is the time required for fitting and predicting: while fitting KRR is fast in principle, the grid-search for hyperparameter optimization scales exponentially with the number of hyperparameters (“curse of dimensionality”). The gradient-based optimization of the parameters in GPR does not suffer from this exponential scaling and is thus considerable faster on this example with 3-dimensional hyperparameter space. The time for predicting is similar; however, generating the variance of the predictive distribution of GPR takes considerable longer than just predicting the mean. 1.7.2.3. GPR on Mauna Loa CO2 data  This example is based on Section 5.4.3 of [RW2006] . It illustrates an example of complex kernel engineering and hyperparameter optimization using gradient ascent on the log-marginal-likelihood. The data consists of the monthly average atmospheric CO2 concentrations (in parts per million by volume (ppmv)) collected at the Mauna Loa Observatory in Hawaii, between 1958 and 1997. The objective is to model the CO2 concentration as a function of the time t. The kernel is composed of several terms that are responsible for explaining different properties of the signal: a long term, smooth rising trend is to be explained by an RBF kernel. The RBF kernel with a large length-scale enforces this component to be smooth; it is not enforced that the trend is rising which leaves this choice to the GP. The specific length-scale and the amplitude are free hyperparameters. a seasonal component, which is to be explained by the periodic ExpSineSquared kernel with a fixed periodicity of 1 year. The length-scale of this periodic component, controlling its smoothness, is a free parameter. In order to allow decaying away from exact periodicity, the product with an RBF kernel is taken. The length-scale of this RBF component controls the decay time and is a further free parameter. smaller, medium term irregularities are to be explained by a RationalQuadratic kernel component, whose length-scale and alpha parameter, which determines the diffuseness of the length-scales, are to be determined. According to [RW2006] , these irregularities can better be explained by a RationalQuadratic than an RBF kernel component, probably because it can accommodate several length-scales. a “noise” term, consisting of an RBF kernel contribution, which shall explain the correlated noise components such as local weather phenomena, and a WhiteKernel contribution for the white noise. The relative amplitudes and the RBF’s length scale are further free parameters. Maximizing the log-marginal-likelihood after subtracting the target’s mean yields the following kernel with an LML of -83.214: Thus, most of the target signal (34.4ppm) is explained by a long-term rising trend (length-scale 41.8 years). The periodic component has an amplitude of 3.27ppm, a decay time of 180 years and a length-scale of 1.44. The long decay time indicates that we have a locally very close to periodic seasonal component. The correlated noise has an amplitude of 0.197ppm with a length scale of 0.138 years and a white-noise contribution of 0.197ppm. Thus, the overall noise level is very small, indicating that the data can be very well explained by the model. The figure shows also that the model makes very confident predictions until around 2015 