sklearn_1_2_linear_and_quadratic_discriminant_analysis
1.2. Linear and Quadratic Discriminant Analysis
modules/lda_qda.html
 1.2.5. Estimation algorithms  Using LDA and QDA requires computing the log-posterior which depends on the class priors , the class means , and the covariance matrices. The ‘svd’ solver is the default solver used for LinearDiscriminantAnalysis , and it is the only available solver for QuadraticDiscriminantAnalysis . It can perform both classification and transform (for LDA). As it does not rely on the calculation of the covariance matrix, the ‘svd’ solver may be preferable in situations where the number of features is large. The ‘svd’ solver cannot be used with shrinkage. For QDA, the use of the SVD solver relies on the fact that the covariance matrix is, by definition, equal to where comes from the SVD of the (centered) matrix: . It turns out that we can compute the log-posterior above without having to explictly compute : computing and via the SVD of is enough. For LDA, two SVDs are computed: the SVD of the centered input matrix and the SVD of the class-wise mean vectors. The ‘lsqr’ solver is an efficient algorithm that only works for classification. It needs to explicitly compute the covariance matrix , and supports shrinkage. This solver computes the coefficients by solving for , thus avoiding the explicit computation of the inverse . The ‘eigen’ solver is based on the optimization of the between class scatter to within class scatter ratio. It can be used for both classification and transform, and it supports shrinkage. However, the ‘eigen’ solver needs to compute the covariance matrix, so it might not be suitable for situations with a high number of features. Examples: Normal and Shrinkage Linear Discriminant Analysis for classification : Comparison of LDA classifiers with and without shrinkage. References: 1 ( 1 , 2 ) “The Elements of Statistical Learning”, Hastie T., Tibshirani R., Friedman J., Section 4.3, p.106-119, 2008. 2 Ledoit O, Wolf M. Honey, I Shrunk the Sample Covariance Matrix. The Journal of Portfolio Management 30(4), 110-119, 2004. 3 R. O. Duda, P. E. Hart, D. G. Stork. Pattern Classification (Second Edition), section 2.6.2. 