sklearn_2_1_gaussian_mixture_models
2.1. Gaussian mixture models
modules/mixture.html
 2.1.2. Variational Bayesian Gaussian Mixture  The BayesianGaussianMixture object implements a variant of the Gaussian mixture model with variational inference algorithms. The API is similar as the one defined by GaussianMixture . 2.1.2.1. Estimation algorithm: variational inference  Variational inference is an extension of expectation-maximization that maximizes a lower bound on model evidence (including priors) instead of data likelihood. The principle behind variational methods is the same as expectation-maximization (that is both are iterative algorithms that alternate between finding the probabilities for each point to be generated by each mixture and fitting the mixture to these assigned points), but variational methods add regularization by integrating information from prior distributions. This avoids the singularities often found in expectation-maximization solutions but introduces some subtle biases to the model. Inference is often notably slower, but not usually as much so as to render usage unpractical. Due to its Bayesian nature, the variational algorithm needs more hyper- parameters than expectation-maximization, the most important of these being the concentration parameter . Specifying a low value for the concentration prior will make the model put most of the weight on few components set the remaining components weights very close to zero. High values of the concentration prior will allow a larger number of components to be active in the mixture. The parameters implementation of the BayesianGaussianMixture class proposes two types of prior for the weights distribution: a finite mixture model with Dirichlet distribution and an infinite mixture model with the Dirichlet Process. In practice Dirichlet Process inference algorithm is approximated and uses a truncated distribution with a fixed maximum number of components (called the Stick-breaking representation). The number of components actually used almost always depends on the data. The next figure compares the results obtained for the different type of the weight concentration prior (parameter ) for different values of . Here, we can see the value of the parameter has a strong impact on the effective number of active components obtained. We can also notice that large values for the concentration weight prior lead to more uniform weights when the type of prior is ‘dirichlet_distribution’ while this is not necessarily the case for the ‘dirichlet_process’ type (used by default). The examples below compare Gaussian mixture models with a fixed number of components, to the variational Gaussian mixture models with a Dirichlet process prior. Here, a classical Gaussian mixture is fitted with 5 components on a dataset composed of 2 clusters. We can see that the variational Gaussian mixture with a Dirichlet process prior is able to limit itself to only 2 components whereas the Gaussian mixture fits the data with a fixed number of components that has to be set a priori by the user. In this case the user has selected which does not match the true generative distribution of this toy dataset. Note that with very little observations, the variational Gaussian mixture models with a Dirichlet process prior can take a conservative stand, and fit only one component. On the following figure we are fitting a dataset not well-depicted by a Gaussian mixture. Adjusting the , parameter of the BayesianGaussianMixture controls the number of components used to fit this data. We also present on the last two plots a random sampling generated from the two resulting mixtures. Examples: See Gaussian Mixture Model Ellipsoids for an example on plotting the confidence ellipsoids for both GaussianMixture and BayesianGaussianMixture . Gaussian Mixture Model Sine Curve shows using GaussianMixture and BayesianGaussianMixture to fit a sine wave. See Concentration Prior Type Analysis of Variation Bayesian Gaussian Mixture for an example plotting the confidence ellipsoids for the BayesianGaussianMixture with different for different values of the parameter . 2.1.2.2. Pros and cons of variational inference with BayesianGaussianMixture  2.1.2.2.1. Pros  Automatic selection when is small enough and is larger than what is found necessary by the model, the Variational Bayesian mixture model has a natural tendency to set some mixture weights values close to zero. This makes it possible to let the model choose a suitable number of effective components automatically. Only an upper bound of this number needs to be provided. Note however that the “ideal” number of active components is very application specific and is typically ill-defined in a data exploration setting. Less sensitivity to the number of parameters unlike finite models, which will almost always use all components as much as they can, and hence will produce wildly different solutions for different numbers of components, the variational inference with a Dirichlet process prior ( ) won’t change much with changes to the parameters, leading to more stability and less tuning. Regularization due to the incorporation of prior information, variational solutions have less pathological special cases than expectation-maximization solutions. 2.1.2.2.2. Cons  Speed the extra parametrization necessary for variational inference make inference slower, although not by much. Hyperparameters this algorithm needs an extra hyperparameter that might need experimental tuning via cross-validation. Bias there are many implicit biases in the inference algorithms (and also in the Dirichlet process if used), and whenever there is a mismatch between these biases and the data it might be possible to fit better models using a finite mixture. 2.1.2.3. The Dirichlet Process  Here we describe variational inference algorithms on Dirichlet process mixture. The Dirichlet process is a prior probability distribution on clusterings with an infinite, unbounded, number of partitions . Variational techniques let us incorporate this prior structure on Gaussian mixture models at almost no penalty in inference time, comparing with a finite Gaussian mixture model. An important question is how can the Dirichlet process use an infinite, unbounded number of clusters and still be consistent. While a full explanation doesn’t fit this manual, one can think of its stick breaking process analogy to help understanding it. The stick breaking process is a generative story for the Dirichlet process. We start with a unit-length stick and in each step we break off a portion of the remaining stick. Each time, we associate the length of the piece of the stick to the proportion of points that falls into a group of the mixture. At the end, to represent the infinite mixture, we associate the last remaining piece of the stick to the proportion of points that don’t fall into all the other groups. The length of each piece is a random variable with probability proportional to the concentration parameter. Smaller value of the concentration will divide the unit-length into larger pieces of the stick (defining more concentrated distribution). Larger concentration values will create smaller pieces of the stick (increasing the number of components with non zero weights). Variational inference techniques for the Dirichlet process still work with a finite approximation to this infinite mixture model, but instead of having to specify a priori how many components one wants to use, one just specifies the concentration parameter and an upper bound on the number of mixture components (this upper bound, assuming it is higher than the “true” number of components, affects only algorithmic complexity, not the actual number of components used). 