sklearn_2_3_clustering
2.3. Clustering
modules/clustering.html
 2.3.5. Spectral clustering  SpectralClustering performs a low-dimension embedding of the affinity matrix between samples, followed by clustering, e.g., by KMeans, of the components of the eigenvectors in the low dimensional space. It is especially computationally efficient if the affinity matrix is sparse and the solver is used for the eigenvalue problem (Note, the solver requires that the pyamg module is installed.) The present version of SpectralClustering requires the number of clusters to be specified in advance. It works well for a small number of clusters, but is not advised for many clusters. For two clusters, SpectralClustering solves a convex relaxation of the normalised cuts problem on the similarity graph: cutting the graph in two so that the weight of the edges cut is small compared to the weights of the edges inside each cluster. This criteria is especially interesting when working on images, where graph vertices are pixels, and weights of the edges of the similarity graph are computed using a function of a gradient of the image. Warning Transforming distance to well-behaved similarities Note that if the values of your similarity matrix are not well distributed, e.g. with negative values or with a distance matrix rather than a similarity, the spectral problem will be singular and the problem not solvable. In which case it is advised to apply a transformation to the entries of the matrix. For instance, in the case of a signed distance matrix, is common to apply a heat kernel: See the examples for such an application. Examples: Spectral clustering for image segmentation : Segmenting objects from a noisy background using spectral clustering. Segmenting the picture of greek coins in regions : Spectral clustering to split the image of coins in regions. 2.3.5.1. Different label assignment strategies  Different label assignment strategies can be used, corresponding to the parameter of SpectralClustering . strategy can match finer details, but can be unstable. In particular, unless you control the , it may not be reproducible from run-to-run, as it depends on random initialization. The alternative strategy is 100% reproducible, but tends to create parcels of fairly even and geometrical shape. 2.3.5.2. Spectral Clustering Graphs  Spectral Clustering can also be used to partition graphs via their spectral embeddings. In this case, the affinity matrix is the adjacency matrix of the graph, and SpectralClustering is initialized with : References: “A Tutorial on Spectral Clustering” Ulrike von Luxburg, 2007 “Normalized cuts and image segmentation” Jianbo Shi, Jitendra Malik, 2000 “A Random Walks View of Spectral Segmentation” Marina Meila, Jianbo Shi, 2001 “On Spectral Clustering: Analysis and an algorithm” Andrew Y. Ng, Michael I. Jordan, Yair Weiss, 2001 “Preconditioned Spectral Clustering for Stochastic Block Partition Streaming Graph Challenge” David Zhuzhunashvili, Andrew Knyazev 