caret_21_feature_selection_using_genetic_algorithms
21 Feature Selection using Genetic Algorithms
feature-selection-using-genetic-algorithms.html
 21.4 Genetic Algorithm Example Using the example from the previous page where there are five real predictors and 40 noise predictors: We’ll fit a random forest model and use the out-of-bag RMSE estimate as the internal performance metric and use the same repeated 10-fold cross-validation process used with the search. To do this, we’ll use the built-in rfGA object for this purpose. The default GA operators will be used and conduct 200 generations of the algorithm. With 5 repeats of 10-fold cross-validation, the GA was executed 50 times. The average external performance is calculated across resamples and these results are used to determine the optimal number of iterations for the final GA to avoid over-fitting. Across the resamples, an average of 9.3 predictors were selected at the end of each of the algorithms. The plot function is used to monitor the average of the internal out-of-bag RMSE estimates as well as the average of the external performance estimates calculated from the 50 out-of-sample predictions. By default, this function uses ggplot2 package. A black and white theme can be “added” to the output object: Based on these results, the generation associated with the best external RMSE estimate was 2.81. Using the entire training set, the final GA is conducted and, at generation 195, there were 12 that were selected: real1, real2, real3, real4, real5, bogus3, bogus5, bogus7, bogus8, bogus14, bogus17, bogus29. The random forest model with these predictors is created using the entire training set is trained and this is the model that is used when predict.gafs is executed. Note: the correlation between the internal and external fitness values is somewhat atypical for most real-world problems. This is a function of the nature of the simulations (a small number of uncorrelated informative predictors) and that the OOB error estimate from random forest is a product of hundreds of trees. Your mileage may vary. 