caret_7_train_models_by_tag
7 train Models By Tag
train-models-by-tag.html
 7.0.14 Generalized Additive Model (back to contents ) Boosted Generalized Additive Model Type: Regression, Classification Tuning parameters: mstop (# Boosting Iterations) prune (AIC Prune?) Required packages: mboost , plyr , import Notes: The prune option for this model enables the number of iterations to be determined by the optimal AIC value across all iterations. See the examples in ?mboost::mstop . If pruning is not used, the ensemble makes predictions using the exact value of the mstop tuning parameter value. Generalized Additive Model using LOESS Type: Regression, Classification Tuning parameters: span (Span) degree (Degree) Required packages: gam A model-specific variable importance metric is available. Notes: Which terms enter the model in a nonlinear manner is determined by the number of unique values for the predictor. For example, if a predictor only has four unique values, most basis expansion method will fail because there are not enough granularity in the data. By default, a predictor must have at least 10 unique values to be used in a nonlinear basis expansion. Unlike other packages used by train , the gam package is fully loaded when this model is used. Generalized Additive Model using Splines Type: Regression, Classification Tuning parameters: select (Feature Selection) method (Method) Required packages: mgcv A model-specific variable importance metric is available. Notes: Which terms enter the model in a nonlinear manner is determined by the number of unique values for the predictor. For example, if a predictor only has four unique values, most basis expansion method will fail because there are not enough granularity in the data. By default, a predictor must have at least 10 unique values to be used in a nonlinear basis expansion. Unlike other packages used by train , the mgcv package is fully loaded when this model is used. Generalized Additive Model using Splines Type: Regression, Classification Tuning parameters: select (Feature Selection) method (Method) Required packages: mgcv A model-specific variable importance metric is available. Notes: Which terms enter the model in a nonlinear manner is determined by the number of unique values for the predictor. For example, if a predictor only has four unique values, most basis expansion method will fail because there are not enough granularity in the data. By default, a predictor must have at least 10 unique values to be used in a nonlinear basis expansion. Unlike other packages used by train , the mgcv package is fully loaded when this model is used. Generalized Additive Model using Splines Type: Regression, Classification Tuning parameters: df (Degrees of Freedom) Required packages: gam A model-specific variable importance metric is available. Notes: Which terms enter the model in a nonlinear manner is determined by the number of unique values for the predictor. For example, if a predictor only has four unique values, most basis expansion method will fail because there are not enough granularity in the data. By default, a predictor must have at least 10 unique values to be used in a nonlinear basis expansion. Unlike other packages used by train , the gam package is fully loaded when this model is used. 